SSL, or Secure Sockets Layer, was the original encryption protocol developed for HTTP. SSL was replaced by TLS, or Transport Layer Security, some time ago. SSL handshakes are now called TLS handshakes, although the "SSL" name is still in wide use.
Specify which version of TLS (TLS 1.0, 1.2, 1.3, etc.) they will use
Decide on which cipher suites (see below) they will use
Authenticate the identity of the server via the server’s public key and the SSL certificate


https://www.cloudflare.com/en-in/learning/ssl/what-happens-in-a-tls-handshake/




3. ARP learning process
4. TCP Header and IP header
5. IPSEC



What is Terraform State File
What happens when a Computer reboot

What is ARP? Where does it happen in a network?
What are group policies in Windows? Where and when do the get applied?
What happens if ICMP is blocked in a network? And how will you detect it?
3:How a webpage is loaded when we type an URL in a Browser?








Physical layer :
represent physical devices that interconnect computers 
Its about cables ,connectors 

Data	link layer:
At this level we introduce our first protocol 
Responsible for defining common way of interpreting this signal so network devices can communicate 
Lot of protocol are there at data link layer ,most common is Ethernet :responsible for getting data to node on the same network 

Ethernet as a protocol uses csma/cd 
Csma/cd:carrier sense multiple access with collision detection 
Csma/cd:used to determine when the communication	channels are clear and when a device is free to transfer data 



Network link :allows different networks to communicate with each other through devices known as router 
Network layer responsible for delivering data across the network 
Most common protocol used here is IP 




Transport layer :
Sorts out which client and server programs are supposed to get that data 
Tcp/ip 


Application layer :
All applications are present 







Cables:

Allows different devices to connect to each other 
Most network cables that carry data are of two types copper and fibre 

Copper cable:types
Cat5,cat5e,cat6
Cat is called as categories , defines no of twists in copper wire ,usable length and transfer rates 


Cross talk when an electric pulse on one wire is accidentally detected on another wire .




Fiber cables:contain individual optical fibers ,which are tiny tubes made out of glass ,use pulses of light to transfer data 




Hubs:
Cables only allow you to from point to point connection ,not useful where we have billions of devices 

Hub is a physical layer device that allows for connections from many computers at once 
All devices connected to hub will end up talking to other devices at same time , it depends on system if the data was meant for them

Are artifacts today not in use because causes much of network noise ,




Switches:similar to hub , to switch you can connect many devices at once 
While switch is layer 2 , data link layer device because now switch here can inspect the content of ethernet protocol data ,determining for which network data is intended for 

Switches will have many network ports 


Router:

Routers knows how to forward data between independent network ,operates at layer 3 (network layer )
Router stores internal tables to how to route traffic all over the world 
Home router will not detailed routing table , inside the home to isp service provider 

Router share data with global router via  protocol know as BGP (broader gateway protocol ) - lets them find the most optimal path 











server,
is as something that provides data to something requesting that data.
The thing receiving the data, is referred to as a client

Bit: smallest representation of data that a computer can understand 


Duplex communication:information can flow in both directions across the cable 

Simplex comunication:unidirectional 



Rj45:registered jack
Link light :when connected properly 
Activity light:when data is being transferred 


Patch panel will contain many network ports

Line coding is the modulation of an electrical charge so that each side of a connection knows what is a one and what is a zero.




MAc address: media access control 
Globally unique identifier attached to an individual network interface 
48 bit number normally represented by six groupings of two hexadecimal numbers 

Octet:any number represented by 8 bit 

First three octets of Mac address represent organizationally unique identifier (oui)

Unicast : unicast transmission is always meant for just one receiving address ,
first octet is set to 0


Multicast: first octet is set to 1 , received by devices connected to network 
Is discarded or accepted depending 

Broadcast : sent to everyone 
Achieved by ethernet broadcast address its all FFFFFFFFF



Dissecting an ethernet frame:

Data packet : is set of binary data being sent across the network 

Ethernet frame:highly structured collection of information presented in specific order 


First part of ethernet frame :preamble 
The first seven bytes are a series of alternating ones and zeros.These act partially as a buffer between frames and can also be used by the network interfaces to synchronize internal clocks they use, to regulate the speed at which they send data

last byte in the preamble is known as the SFD or start frame delimiter.


This signals to a receiving device that the preamble is over and that the actual frame contents will now follow. Immediately following the start frame delimiter, comes the destination MAC address.


Ethernet frame is called the EtherType field. It's 16 bits long and used to describe the protocol of the contents of the frame.


Vlan lets you have multiple logical lans 





Internet protocol address :
IP addresses are a 32 bit long numbers made up of four octets, and
each octet is normally described in decimal numbers. 8 bits of data or a single octet can represent all decimal numbers from 0 to 255

IP addresses belong to the networks, not the devices attached to those networks.


Ip datagram header 

Under the IP protocol, a packet is usually referred to as an IP datagram
two primary sections of an IP datagram are the header and the payload.
Ip header is 20 bytes

the flag field is used to indicate if a datagram is allowed to be fragmented
Fragmentation is the process of taking
a single IP datagram and splitting it up into several smaller datagrams.


The Time to Live or TTL field.This field is an 8-bit field that indicates how
many router hops a datagram can traverse before it's thrown away.



Transport layer protocol are tcp and udp 


Padding is series of zeroes used to ensure  that header is of total correct size 

IP addresses can be split into two sections, the network ID and the host ID.




The address class system is a way of defining how the global IP address space is split up.
There are three primary types of address classes.
Class A, Class B and Class C.

Class A:
123.456.780.00

Where first octet is used as network id and remaining three are used as host id 

0 to 127 

16 million addresses

Class B:
123.456.780.00

64000 addresses

Where first two octet is used as network id and remaining two  are used as host id 
128 to 191 



Class c:

192 to 224
254 address 

Class d:used for multicasting 



224 to 239 


Class E :addresses make up all of the remaining IP addresses.
But they are unassigned and only used for testing purposes

240 to 255




Arp:address resolution protocol

ARP is a protocol used to discover the hardware address of a node with a certain
IP address.
needs to be encapsulated inside an Ethernet frame





subnetting is the process of taking a large network and splitting it up into many individual smaller subnetworks or subnet



classless inter-domain routing comes into play.
CIDR is an even more flexible approach to describing blocks of IP addresses.











The Domain Name System (DNS) is the phonebook of the Internet
DNS translates domain names to IP addresses DNS servers eliminate the need for humans to memorize IP addresses








4 DNS servers involved in loading a webpage
DNS recursor:
DNS recursor is a server designed to receive queries from client machines

The root server is the first step in translating (resolving) human readable host names into IP addresses

Tld,authorative name server








https://www.javatpoint.com/http-interview-questions  










